DO NOT MERGE [Durable Objects] Make Durable Objects a tile (#9477)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/durable-objects/platform/data-location.md

---
title: Data location
pcx_content_type: concept
weight: 16
---

> # Data location

Reviewer: This page uses object, Object and Durable Object seemingly interchangeably. Need to pick one option and standardize it throughout.

You can restrict a Durable Object to a jurisdiction, or provide a location hint.

## Restrict Durable Objects to a jurisdiction

Durable Objects can be created so that they only run and store data within a specific jurisdiction to comply with local regulations such as the [GDPR](https://gdpr-info.eu/) or [FedRAMP](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-achieves-fedramp-authorization/). 

To use a jurisdiction, first create a jursidictional subnamespace:

```js
let subnamespace = OBJECT_NAMESPACE.jurisdiction('eu');
```

> A jurisdictional subnamespace works like a normal Durable Object namespace (`OBJECT_NAMESPACE` above), except that IDs created within them permanently encode the jurisdiction that was used to create the subnamespace. Additionally, the `idFromString()` and `get()` methods will throw an exception if the IDs passed into them are not within the subnamespace's jurisdiction. Once you have a subnamespace you can use all of the namespace methods documented above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A jurisdictional subnamespace works like a normal Durable Object namespace (`OBJECT_NAMESPACE` above), except that IDs created within them permanently encode the jurisdiction that was used to create the subnamespace. Additionally, the `idFromString()` and `get()` methods will throw an exception if the IDs passed into them are not within the subnamespace's jurisdiction. Once you have a subnamespace, you can use all of the namespace methods documented above.
```

To create a new Object ID that will only run and persist data within the jurisdiction:

```js
let id = subnamespace.newUniqueId();
```

To derive a unique object ID from the given name string that will only run and persist data within the jurisdiction:

> ```js

Reviewer: Where?

This may be counterintuitive at first, but it would be impossible to enforce two different non-overlapping jurisdictions for a single name. The key insight to remember is that Durable Object namespaces operate on IDs, not names, and the jurisdiction is a permanent part of the ID.

{{</Aside>}}

To parse a previously-created ID from a string:

```js
let id = subnamespace.idFromString(id);
```

To obtain an Object:

```js
let durableObjectStub = subnamespace.get(id)
```

While you cannot use an ID from a different jurisdiction in a subnamespace's `idFromString()` or `get()` methods, you can use any valid ID in the top-level namespace's methods. Object IDs created with a jurisdiction will still only run and persist data within the jurisdiction.

```js
let id = subnamespace.idFromName(name);

// This is valid.
OBJECT_NAMESPACE.idFromString(id.toString())

// And so is this.
OBJECT_NAMESPACE.get(id)
```

> Your Workers may still access Objects constrained to a jurisdiction from anywhere in the world. The jurisdiction constraint only controls where the Durable Object itself runs and persists data. Consider using [Regional Services](https://blog.cloudflare.com/introducing-regional-services/) to control the regions from which Cloudflare responds to requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Workers may still access Objects constrained to a jurisdiction from anywhere in the world. The jurisdiction constraint only controls where the Durable Object itself runs and persists data. Consider using [Regional Services](/data-localization/regional-services/) to control the regions from which Cloudflare responds to requests.
```
